\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This will be for the printing version of the manual
@c @input config-local.texi
@c %**start of header
@setfilename rmol-ref.info
@settitle Revenue Management Optimisation Library -- Reference Manual
@finalout
@set frontcontents
@ifset publish
@setchapternewpage odd
@end ifset
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Scientific software
@direntry
* rmol-ref: (rmol-ref).    Revenue Management Optimisation Library -- Reference
@end direntry

@c How to use the math macros
@c ==========================
@c 
@c For simple expressions, simply use the @math{} command, e.g.
@c
@c     @math{\exp(x)/(1+x^2)}
@c 
@c but if the expression includes characters that need to be 'escaped'
@c in texinfo, like '{' or '}', or needs different output for TeX and info,
@c then use the following form,
@c
@c     blah blah blah @c{$y^{1+b} \le \pi$}
@c     @math{y^@{1+b@} <= \pi}
@c
@c The first part using @c{} must appear at the end of a line (it reads
@c up to the line end -- as far as texinfo is concerned it's actually
@c a 'comment').  The comment command @c has been modified to capture
@c a TeX expression which is output by the next @math.
@c
@c For ordinary comments use the @comment command.

@tex
% Mathematical macros taken from the GNU Calc Manual
% ==================================================
%
% Some special kludges to make TeX formatting prettier.
% Because makeinfo.c exists, we can't just define new commands.
% So instead, we take over little-used existing commands.
%
% Redefine @cite{text} to act like $text$ in regular TeX.
% Info will typeset this same as @samp{text}.
\gdef\goodtex{\tex \let\rm\goodrm \let\t\ttfont \turnoffactive}
\gdef\goodrm{\fam0\tenrm}
\gdef\math{\goodtex$\mathxxx}
\gdef\mathxxx#1{#1$\endgroup}
\global\let\oldxrefX=\xrefX
\gdef\xrefX[#1]{\begingroup\let\math=\dfn\oldxrefX[#1]\endgroup}
%
% Redefine @i{text} to be equivalent to @cite{text}, i.e., to use math mode.
% This looks the same in TeX but omits the surrounding ` ' in Info.
%\global\let\i=\cite
%\global\let\math=\cite
%
% Redefine @c{tex-stuff} \n @whatever{info-stuff}.
\gdef\c{\futurelet\next\mycxxx}
\gdef\mycxxx{%
  \ifx\next\bgroup \goodtex\let\next\mycxxy
  \else\ifx\next\mindex \let\next\relax
  \else\ifx\next\kindex \let\next\relax
  \else\ifx\next\starindex \let\next\relax \else \let\next\comment
  \fi\fi\fi\fi \next
}
\gdef\mycxxy#1#2{#1\endgroup\mycxxz}
\gdef\mycxxz#1{}
%
% Define \Hat to take over from \hat as an accent
\gdef\Hat{\mathaccent "705E}
%
%\gdef\beforedisplay{\vskip-10pt}
%\gdef\afterdisplay{\vskip-5pt}
\gdef\beforedisplay{}
\gdef\afterdisplay{}
{\globaldefs = 1
\abovedisplayskip=7pt plus 2pt minus 1pt
\belowdisplayskip=7pt plus 2pt minus 1pt
\abovedisplayshortskip=7pt plus 2pt minus 1pt
\belowdisplayshortskip=7pt plus 2pt minus 1pt}
%\abovedisplayskip=12pt plus 3pt minus 3pt
%\belowdisplayskip=12pt plus 3pt minus 3pt
%\abovedisplayshortskip=7pt plus 1pt minus 1pt
%\belowdisplayshortskip=7pt plus 1pt minus 1pt
%\gdef\beforedisplayh{\vskip-25pt}
%\gdef\afterdisplayh{\vskip-10pt}
%
\gdef\arcsec{\hbox{\rm arcsec}}
\gdef\arccsc{\hbox{\rm arccsc}}
\gdef\arccot{\hbox{\rm arccot}}
\gdef\sech{\hbox{\rm sech}}
\gdef\csch{\hbox{\rm csch}}
\gdef\coth{\hbox{\rm coth}}
\gdef\arcsinh{\hbox{\rm arcsinh}}
\gdef\arccosh{\hbox{\rm arccosh}}
\gdef\arctanh{\hbox{\rm arctanh}}
\gdef\arcsech{\hbox{\rm arcsech}}
\gdef\arccsch{\hbox{\rm arccsch}}
\gdef\arccoth{\hbox{\rm arccoth}}
%
\gdef\Re{\hbox{\rm Re}}
\gdef\Im{\hbox{\rm Im}}
\gdef\Sin{\hbox{\rm Sin}}
\gdef\Cos{\hbox{\rm Cos}}
\gdef\Log{\hbox{\rm Log}}
%
\gdef\erf{\hbox{\rm erf}}
\gdef\erfc{\hbox{\rm erfc}}
\gdef\sinc{\hbox{\rm sinc}}
\gdef\sgn{\hbox{\rm sgn}}
\gdef\sign{\hbox{\rm sign}}
\gdef\det{\hbox{\rm det}}
\gdef\Var{\hbox{\rm Var}}
\gdef\arg{\hbox{\rm arg}} % avoid temporary clobbering of arg in texinfo-4.8
@end tex

@include version-ref.texi
@set RMOL @i{Revenue Management Optimisation Library}

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2006, 2007 The RMOL Team.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being ``GNU General Public License'' and ``Free Software
Needs Free Documentation'', the Front-Cover text being ``A GNU Manual'',
and with the Back-Cover Text being (a) (see below).  A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free Documentation
License''.

(a) The Back-Cover Text is: ``You have freedom to copy and modify this
GNU Manual, like GNU software.''
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Revenue Management Optimisation Library
@subtitle Reference Manual
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for RMOL Version @value{VERSION}
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}

@author Denis Arnaud
Amadeus
@comment @email{denis_arnaud@users.sourceforge.net}
@sp 1

@author Karim Duval
Amadeus
@comment @email{kduval@amadeus.com}
@sp 1

@author Ngoc-Thach Hoang
Amadeus
@comment @email{nhoang@amadeus.com}
@sp 1

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@ifclear publish
Printed copies of this manual can be purchased from Sourceforge.net
at @uref{http://rmol.sourceforge.net}.

The money raised from sales of the manual helps support the
development of RMOL.
@end ifclear
@end titlepage

@iftex
@ifset frontcontents
@contents
@end ifset
@end iftex

@ifnottex
@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@top RMOL

This file documents the @value{RMOL} (RMOL), a collection of numerical
routines for scientific computing.  It corresponds to release
@value{VERSION} of the library.  Please report any errors in this
manual to @email{bug-rmol@@gnu.org}.

More information about RMOL can be found at the project homepage,
@uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/rmol/}.

A Japanese translation of this manual is available from the RMOL
project homepage thanks to Daisuke Tominaga.

Printed copies of this manual can be purchased from Network Theory Ltd
at @uref{http://www.network-theory.co.uk/rmol/manual/}. The money
raised from sales of the manual helps support the development of RMOL.

@insertcopying
@sp 1
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::                
* Using the library::           
* Error Handling::
* Debugging Numerical Programs::         
* Contributors to RMOL::
* Autoconf Macros::             
* Free Software Needs Free Documentation::  
* GNU General Public License::  
* GNU Free Documentation License::  
* Function Index::              
* Variable Index::              
* Type Index::                  
* Concept Index::               
@end menu

@node  Introduction, Using the library, Top, Top
@chapter Introduction
@include intro.texi

@node Using the library, Error Handling, Introduction, Top
@chapter Using the library
@cindex usage, compiling application programs
@include usage.texi

@node Error Handling, Debugging Numerical Programs, Using the library, Top
@chapter Error Handling
@cindex Errors
@include err.texi

@node Debugging Numerical Programs, Contributors to RMOL, Error Handling, Top
@appendix Debugging Numerical Programs
@include debug.texi

@node Contributors to RMOL, Autoconf Macros, Debugging Numerical Programs, Top
@appendix Contributors to RMOL

(See the AUTHORS file in the distribution for up-to-date information.)

@table @strong
@item Denis Arnaud
Conceived RMOL (with Karim Duval, Ngoc-Thach Hoang, Patrick Grandjean
and Ivan Weber) and wrote the design document.  Wrote the single
resource optimisation package and the relevant chapter in the manual.

@item Karim Duval
Conceived RMOL (with Denis Arnaud).  Wrote the forecaster package and
the relevant chapter in the manual.

@item Ivan Weber
Conceived RMOL (with Denis Arnaud).  Wrote the multiple resource
optimisation package and the relevant chapter in the manual.

@item Ngoc-Thach Hoang
Conceived RMOL (with Denis Arnaud).  Wrote the overbooking package and
the relevant chapter in the manual.

@item Patrick Grandjean
Conceived RMOL (with Mark Galassi).  Wrote the Java package.

@end table

Thanks to Olivier Marode for help in proofreading the manual.


@node  Autoconf Macros, Free Software Needs Free Documentation, Contributors to RMOL, Top
@appendix Autoconf Macros
@include autoconf.texi

@comment @node  Copyright, GNU General Public License, Contributors to RMOL, Top
@comment @unnumbered Copyright
@comment @include science.texi

@node  Free Software Needs Free Documentation, GNU General Public License, Autoconf Macros, Top
@unnumbered Free Software Needs Free Documentation
@include freemanuals.texi

@node  GNU General Public License, GNU Free Documentation License, Free Software Needs Free Documentation, Top
@unnumbered GNU General Public License
@include gpl.texi

@node GNU Free Documentation License, Function Index, GNU General Public License, Top
@unnumbered GNU Free Documentation License
@include fdl.texi

@comment htmlhelp: @printindex fn
@comment htmlhelp: @printindex vr
@comment htmlhelp: @printindex tp
@comment htmlhelp: @printindex cp
@comment htmlhelp: @bye

@iftex
@normalbottom
@end iftex

@node Function Index, Variable Index, GNU Free Documentation License, Top
@unnumbered Function Index

@printindex fn

@node Variable Index, Type Index, Function Index, Top
@unnumbered Variable Index

@printindex vr

@node Type Index, Concept Index, Variable Index, Top
@unnumbered Type Index

@printindex tp

@node Concept Index,  , Type Index, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index

@printindex cp

@ifclear frontcontents
@comment Use @setchapternewpage odd to ensure that the contents starts 
@comment on an odd page so that it can always be moved to the front when 
@comment printing two-up.
@setchapternewpage odd
@contents
@end ifclear

@ifset extrablankpages
@comment final page must be blank for printed version
@page
@headings off
@*
@page
@*
@comment @page
@comment @*
@comment @page
@comment @*
@end ifset
@bye
